JOB SUMMARY 

The FBI is looking for Police Officers and seeking qualified candidates from a variety of backgrounds and professional disciplines who are committed to combating crime and terrorism while protecting the American public. All New Police Officers will be offered their working location based on the needs of the Bureau and must sign a two-year service agreement agreeing to stay in the Police Officer Program and their office of assignment location for a period two years. #LI-FBI

LOCATION: Washington, DC; New York, NY; Clarksburg, WV

KEY REQUIREMENTS

Must be a U.S. citizen.
Must be at least 21 years of age.
Must be able to attend and pass the Police Officer Selection System (POSS) written test and panel interview. Applicant will be responsible for all travel expenses associated with travel to and from the testing location.
Must be able to pass a U.S. Government physical exam.
Must have (or be able to obtain) a valid driver’s license.
Must become proficient in the use of a firearm and various other weapon system.
Must be able to obtain a Top Secret clearance.
Selectee will be required to complete a Financial Disclosure Form.
Must attend and complete training at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) in Glynco, GA. Exceptions may be made on a case-by-case basis.
Must adhere to a service agreement starting from the effective date of their appointment as an FBI Police Officer.
Must be willing to work nights/weekends/holidays (shift work).
About Us

FBI Police Officers protect public safety by maintaining order, responding to emergencies, protecting people and property, enforcing motor vehicle and criminal laws and promoting good community relations. You will monitor, report and investigate suspicious persons and situations, as well as safety hazards and unusual or illegal activity in patrol areas. You will identify, pursue and arrest suspects and perpetrators of criminal acts.

About You

You have a background or interest in Criminal Justice, Law Enforcement or Security Operations. You are interested in beginning a career with the FBI and gaining professional experience in protective operations at America’s premier law enforcement agency. You have experience or desire to protect and secure people and real property.

If you are a recent graduate with a background in Criminal Justice, Security or Political Science, a municipal or military Police Officer looking for federal employment, or a Protective Security professional looking for career advancement, this could be the opportunity for you. We welcome retired law enforcement officers to re-enter the workforce as an FBI Police Officer.

As an FBI Police Officer, you will play a key role in keeping the FBI and surrounding areas secure. FBI Police Officers provide service to those in their duty stations and if necessary, travel to aid in times of crisis.

PHYSICAL DEMANDS 

The work requires considerable and strenuous physical exertion such as frequently climbing stairs and ladders; lifting weapons, other objects, and people weighing over 50 lbs.; crouching, crawling, and or running in pursuit of violators and trespassers; and defending oneself and others against physical attack. Agility and dexterity coupled with the strength to pursue, apprehend, and detain/arrest uncooperative suspects is additionally needed. Considerable physical effort is required to subdue, disarm, and arrest violent or potentially violent persons suspected of crimes. Involved persons may be armed with knives, guns, or other dangerous weapons. The work additionally requires continuous mental focus. Physical demands can be potentially amplified through conditions such as extreme weather and occasional long periods of overtime that the incumbent may be exposed to.

WORK ENVIORNMENT 

The work environment regularly involves high risks with exposure to potentially dangerous situations inherently associated with the provision of law enforcement, security, and emergency medical care services. A range of safety precautions are taken in situations where there is specific risk of attack, as well as those having conditions that are uncontrollable. The work involves exposure to extreme weather conditions; dangerous and hazardous situations; materials such as toxic gases, fumes, high explosives; and a variety of illnesses due to the medical aspects of the job. Assignments can also include regular and recurring exposure to extreme discomforts and unpleasantness, particularly during inclement weather or extended periods of traffic and patrol duties. Required duties subject the incumbent to extreme personal danger (e.g. possible physical attack, mob assaults, sniper attacks), which may or may not occur where conditions are able to be controlled. Incumbent may be assigned to both traditional and non-traditional shifts and asked to work odd or extensive hours in connection with special assignments or emergency situations.

MAJOR DUTIES:

As an FBI Police Officer you will:

Provide public safety by maintaining order, respond to emergencies, protect people and property, enforce motor vehicle and criminal laws, and promote good community relations.
Monitor, note, report, and investigate suspicious persons and situations, safety hazards, and unusual or illegal activity in patrol area.
Identify, pursue, and arrest suspects and perpetrators of criminal acts.
Investigate traffic accidents and other accidents to determine causes and to determine if a crime has been committed.
Record facts to prepare reports that document incidents and activities.
Check for proper identification of pedestrian and vehicular traffic prior to admittance to secure space at Stationary posts. Provide screening of vehicles for the detection of explosive devices.
Respond to a variety of alarm situations, protect and safeguard information and material affecting national security and defense and protects people and their civil rights from a wide variety of dangerous and hostile situations.
For more information regarding the FBI Police Officer position, please review FBI Police Officers: An Inside Look.
QUALIFICATIONS AND EVALUATIONS

Please ensure that your specialized experience and requirements are clearly identifiable in your resume. Your application will be evaluated using the FBI’s Candidate Rating Procedures. Your resume and supporting documents will be reviewed to verify that you meet the job qualifications listed in this announcement and will be compared against your responses to the online assessment questionnaire. Applicants must meet the qualification requirements by the closing date of this announcement. 

If you are deemed Most Competitive, you will be referred to the selecting official for further consideration.

The competencies will be used in a Structured Resume Review to objectively evaluate applicant resumes. Do not provide a separate narrative written statement. Rather you must describe in your resume how your past work experience demonstrates that you possess the competencies identified below. Your resume should demonstrate that you possess the following competencies.  

Competencies

Communication
Problem Solving/ Judgement 
Conflict Solving 
Public Safety and Security 
Interpersonal Ability 
Specialized Experience (SE)

GS-7: Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level. SE is defined as:

Independently performing routine, recurring kinds of fixed post and patrol assignments to include: commonly accepted installation traffic laws and rules; regulating access to Federal buildings and conduct of visitors and employees.
OR

Have successfully completed a full 4 year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree. Education completed in foreign colleges or universities may be used to meet the above requirement if you can show that the foreign education is comparable to that received in an accredited educational institution in the United States. All degrees must be from an accredited college or university.
 

GS-9: applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level. SE (in addition to the above) is defined as:

Experience that provided knowledge of a body of basic laws and regulations, law enforcement operations, practices, and techniques and involved responsibility for maintaining order and protecting life and property.
Creditable specialized experience may have been gained in work on a police force; through service as a military police officer; in work providing visitor protection and law enforcement in parks, forests, or other natural resource or recreational environments; in performing criminal investigative duties; or in other work that provided the required knowledge and skills.
Experience in writing incident and investigative reports and issue citations.
 

GS-10: applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level. SE (in addition to the above) is defined as:

Experience performing law enforcement work in the protection of life, property and the civil rights of individuals; with secondary mission being the protection of Government property and national security information from acts sabotage, espionage, terrorism, trespass, theft, fire, and accidental and/or willful damage and destruction.
Experience responding to a wide variety of calls concerning very serious and sensitive situations involving disorderly conduct, deranged persons, and similar occurrences.
Experience maintaining law and order and provides a variety of protective services for employees and visitors on Federal property.
 

GS-11: applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-10 grade level. SE (in addition to the above) is defined as:

Experience with operations and techniques used in preventing or resolving offenses. Well-versed in the methods and procedures used in conducting preliminary investigations of a wide array of offenses, ranging from the most minor to felony and capital crimes.
Experience in patrolling operations, tactics, and optimal strategies for handling unruly persons, violent unruly crowds involved in planned or impromptu demonstrations or riots, detection of explosives, presence of illegal drugs, hostage situations, counterterrorist operations, vehicular and pedestrian accidents, safety violations, and other serious accidents.
HOW TO APPLY

For detailed instructions related to applying, uploading documents, withdrawing an application or updating your application, please review instructions on How to Apply.  If applying online is a hardship, please use the contact information listed in the vacancy announcement prior to the closing date for assistance.

REQUIRED DOCUMENTS

To apply to this position, interested applicants must provide a complete application package by the closing date which includes:

Utilizing the Resume Builder, outline your relevant work experience and associated start and end dates. Uploaded resumes will not be reviewed or used for qualification purposes. 
A complete assessment questionnaire
Other supporting documents (if applicable):
College transcripts, if qualifying based on education or if there is a positive education requirement
Former civilian Federal employees must submit a copy of your MOST RECENT SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action) showing your tenure, grade and step, salary, and type of position occupied (i.e., Excepted or Competitive); or similar Notification of Personnel Action documentation, i.e., Transcript of Service, Form 1150, etc. This is a requirement to verify your Time in Grade (TIG). Actions such as promotion, within grade increase, or reassignment actions must be submitted as your most recent SF 50.
Most recent Performance Appraisal; not applicable to current FBI employees
Veterans: DD 214; Disabled Veterans: DD 214, SF-15, and VA letter dated 1991 or later
Memorandum for Record (MFR): Work performed outside assigned duties (that would not normally be documented on an SF-50, i. e., back-up duties), has to be documented in detail by an immediate supervisor in order to receive full credit for amount of time worked in that position. If no documentation is furnished no credit will be given for time worked in that position. The following notations must be specified in the documentation:
Percent of time worked in the particular position (cannot conflict with main duties.
The month/year work began
Frequency worked (i.e., daily, monthly, etc.)
Specific duties performed
Attach the Memorandum for Record to your application in the “Cover Letters and Attachments” section of My Career Tools on the Careers Home page. Please upload the attachment as type “Other.”

While applicants might see these documents in their profile, HR Specialists may be unable to access them. Therefore, all applicants MUST upload another copy to ensure that staffing units can review the complete application.

Please note: Failure to provide the necessary and relevant information required by this vacancy announcement may disqualify you from consideration. Incomplete applications will not be supplemented with additional requests for information; your application will be evaluated solely on the information you submit. You must complete the application process and submit all required documents by 11:59 p.m. (ET) on the announcement’s closing date.

WHAT TO EXPECT NEXT

Once your complete application is received, we will conduct an evaluation of your qualifications and determine your ranking. The Most Competitive candidates will be referred to the hiring manager for further consideration and possible interview. You will be notified of your status throughout the process.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

The FBI is in the Executive Branch of the federal government. It is one of the components of the Department of Justice (DOJ). The FBI is the principle investigative arm of the DOJ. All FBI positions are in the excepted service.
Applicants must be U.S. citizens and consent to a complete background investigation, urinalysis, and polygraph. You must be suitable for Federal employment; as determined by a background investigation.
Positions with fitness for duty requirements or those that require international travel may require proof of certain vaccinations.
Management may select any grade for which this position has been announced.
Identification of promotion potential in this announcement does not constitute a commitment or an obligation on the part of management to promote the employee selected at some future date. Promotion will depend upon administrative approval and the continuing need for an actual assignment and performance of higher-level duties. 
If you are selected, you will be required to serve a two-year probationary period. Probationary employees are precluded from being considered for all job opportunities until 12-months of their 24-month probationary period has concluded. Probationary Employees may be considered for competitive vacancies that are advertised within their respective division or field office after serving 90 days within the FBI.
Veterans' Preference

If you are entitled to veterans' preference, you should indicate the type of veterans' preference you are claiming on your resume and application. Your veterans' preference entitlement will be verified by the employing agency.

Nepotism

Nepotism is the act of favoring relatives in the hiring process and is prohibited by law. Public officials are prohibited from hiring or promoting relatives or relatives of officials in their chain of command, as well as actively or indirectly endorse a relative’s appointment or promotion. During the hiring process, all selected candidates and FBI hiring managers will be required to certify they are not related to anyone involved in the hiring process.

Reasonable Accommodation

The FBI provides reasonable accommodations to qualified applicants with disabilities. If you require a reasonable accommodation during the application and/or hiring process, please contact the Office of Equal Employment Opportunity Affairs (OEEOA) Reasonable Accommodation (RA) Program by email at REASONABLE_ACCOMMODA@fbi.gov, phone at 202-324-2158, or fax at 202-324-3976. This email address is for reasonable accommodation requests only. Do not send applications or unrelated inquiries to this address, as they will not be considered.

Equal Employment Opportunity

The FBI is an Equal Opportunity Employer, and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for this vacancy. Unless explicitly authorized by law, selection will be made without regard to, and there will be no discrimination because of, color, race, religion, national origin, marital status, parental status, physical or mental disability, genetic information, age (40 or over), sex, pregnancy and related conditions, or on the basis of personal favoritism, or any other non-merit factors.

Benefits

The Bureau matches your dedication with a commitment to professional growth, a supportive work environment, and a robust benefits package that prioritizes you. As a member of our team, you’ll enjoy comprehensive health and life insurance benefits, paid vacation, sick leave, and federal holidays. For more details about benefits available to all federal employees, visit the Office of Personnel Management’s website.